Add GS Platform Access Routes documentation (#317)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/basics/secured-access-to-clusters/index.md

+++
title = "Secured access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support"
description = "This documentation explains security measures for users and Giant Swarm support accessing offered services"
date = "2019-05-09"
weight = 45
type = "page"
categories = ["basics"]
+++

# Secured access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support

> In order to provide best service possible besides you having access to your clusters, also Giant Swarm staff will be able to connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to provide the best service possible besides you having access to your clusters, also Giant Swarm staff will be able to connect.
```

> Thus it should be explained how this access differs and what security measures are brought into place so that your data is save with us. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Thus it should be explained how this access differs and what security measures are brought into place so that your data is saved with us. 
```

## Intro

Access to Giant Swarm clusters can be split into two parts. 

1. Admin Access - designated for Giant Swarm staff for managing/development/support purposes.

2. User Access - designated for Giant Swarm customers to interact with the offered services.

If you would like to know more on different parts of infrastructure you can view the operational layer article [here](https://docs.giantswarm.io/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/)

## Admin Access

Admin access is guarded by Virtual Private Network(VPN) that is managed via certificates (public/private keys) and secured connection between both VPNs.

> Certificates management is handled by one of Giant Swarm private components. The general principle is that certificate is configured for each individual Giant Swarm staff member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Certificates management is handled by one of Giant Swarm private components. The general principle is that certificate is configured for each individual Giant Swarm staff member.
```

VPN Secured access points:

* *SSH* - SSH Admin access is based on the Github SSO. Only users residing in the Github Giant Swarm Organization are allowed to authenticate. Following process describes more in detail the procedure of SSH authentication:
  ![](./ssh_access_process.png)  
  SSH access to Control Plane allows Giant Swarm also to manage and connect to underlying Data Platforms of the Customer.

* *Control Plane Kubernetes API* - Usage of Kuberentes API on Control Plane also follows the authentication principles of the SSH connection.

***General VPN Connection Schema***

Following schema illustrates how the VPN connection looks in practice. 

![](./site-to-site-vpn.png)

Cluster can be accessed by connecting to Giant Swarm VPN server which establishes secure connection with jump host of the cluster.

> We use two different VPN providers in order to bring best and fastest support possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

We use two different VPN providers in order to bring the best and fastest support possible.
```

+++
title = "Secure access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support"

> description = "This documentation explains security measures for users and Giant Swarm support accessing offered services"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description = "This documentation explains security measures for users and Giant Swarm support to access offered services"
```

date = "2019-05-09"
weight = 45
type = "page"
categories = ["basics"]
+++

# Secure access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support

In order to provide the best service possible, Giant Swarm staff also have access to your clusters.

Therefore, we would like to explain this access, and what security measures are in place.

## Intro

Access to Giant Swarm clusters can be split into two parts. 

1. Admin Access - designated for Giant Swarm staff for management/development/support purposes.

> 2. User Access - designated for Giant Swarm customers to interact with the offered services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. User Access - designated for Giant Swarm customers to interact with offered services.
```

If you would like to know more about the different parts of the Giant Swarm infrastructure, please see our [operational layers article](/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/)

## Admin access

> Admin access is guarded by Virtual Private Network (VPN) that is managed via certificates (public/private keys).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Admin access is guarded by a Virtual Private Network (VPN) that is managed via certificates (public/private keys).
```

> Certificates management is handled by combination of Vault and Giant Swarm Organization on Github. The general principle is that a certificate is configured for each individual Giant Swarm staff member.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certificates management is handled by a combination of Vault and the Giant Swarm Organization on Github. The general principle is that a certificate is configured for each individual Giant Swarm staff member.
```

### General VPN connection schema

Following schema illustrates how the VPN connection looks in practice. 

![](./site-to-site-vpn.png)

Cluster can be accessed by connecting to a Giant Swarm VPN server which establishes a secure connection with the jump host of the cluster.

We use two different VPN providers to provide highly resilient and available support to our customers.

### Cloud provider access

Currently, Giant Swarm operators - which are responsible for managing clusters lifecycle - are granted admin rights by the customer to the given cloud provider.

The operator secret used for authentication with the cloud provider is stored in Kubernetes' etcd.
Access to etcd or Kubernetes API are secured based on certificates signed by Vault, 
to which only personnel in the GitHub Giant Swarm organization have access to.   

## User access

User access is limited to the offered APIs for interaction with your clusters. 

### Giant Swarm API

User access is provided to you over the Giant Swarm API. 
Network access to the API endpoint is usually whitelisted to a certain range of IP addresses but it can also be configured to work over VPN.

> Later case follows the security principles of the general VPN connection schema shown above under [admin access](#admin-access), where the connection to API residing in the cluster can be established only via your configured VPN.

Reviewer 2: Later case? What does that mean?

Author: Later case from the previous two options, will rephrase 👍

+++

> title = "Secured access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title = "Secure access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support"
```

description = "This documentation explains security measures for users and Giant Swarm support accessing offered services"
date = "2019-05-09"
weight = 45
type = "page"
categories = ["basics"]
+++

> # Secured access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Secure access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support
```

> In order to provide the best service possible besides you having access to your clusters, also Giant Swarm staff will be able to connect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to provide the best service possible, Giant Swarm staff also have access to your clusters.
```

> Thus it should be explained how this access differs and what security measures are brought into place so that your data is saved with us. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, we would like to explain this access, and what security measures are in place.
```

## Intro

Access to Giant Swarm clusters can be split into two parts. 

> 1. Admin Access - designated for Giant Swarm staff for managing/development/support purposes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Admin Access - designated for Giant Swarm staff for management/development/support purposes.
```

2. User Access - designated for Giant Swarm customers to interact with the offered services.

> If you would like to know more on the different parts of the Giant Swarm infrastructure, please see our [operational layers article](/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you would like to know more about the different parts of the Giant Swarm infrastructure, please see our [operational layers article](/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/)
```

## Admin access

> Admin access is guarded by Virtual Private Network (VPN) that is managed via certificates (public/private keys) and secured connection between both VPNs.

Reviewer 2: Which VPNs?

Author: my bad, i thought we use 2 different VPN "jumps" in the process as well, but that is just 2 different providers of 1 connections

> Certificates management is handled by one of Giant Swarm's private components. The general principle is that a certificate is configured for each individual Giant Swarm staff member.

Reviewer 2: Which private components?

Author: Vault + GH backend, will clarify that

VPN secured access points:

> * **SSH** - SSH Admin access is based on the Github SSO. Only users residing in the Github Giant Swarm Organization are allowed to authenticate. Following process describes more in detail the procedure of SSH authentication:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **SSH** - SSH access is based on GitHub SSO. Only users in the GitHub Giant Swarm Organization are allowed to authenticate. The following diagram describes our SSH authentication in more detail:
```

![](./ssh_access_process.png)  

>   SSH access to Control Plane allows Giant Swarm also to manage and connect to underlying Data Platforms of the Customer.

Reviewer 2: What are 'Data Platforms'?

Author: in fact that is Tenant Cluster, i found Data Platform phrase in one of the architecture diagrams in giantswarm repo

* **Control Plane Kubernetes API** - Usage of Kuberentes API on Control Plane also follows the authentication principles of the SSH connection.

### General VPN connection schema

Following schema illustrates how the VPN connection looks in practice. 

![](./site-to-site-vpn.png)

> Cluster can be accessed by connecting to Giant Swarm VPN server which establishes secure connection with jump host of the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cluster can be accessed by connecting to a Giant Swarm VPN server which establishes a secure connection with the jump host of the cluster.
```

> We use two different VPN providers in order to bring the best and fastest support possible.

Reviewer 2: This isn't why we have two

Author: i thought that's exactly why we have 2 different ones, so if one goes down, we can use another one

### Cloud provider access

> At the current stage internal Giant Swarm operator components responsible for managing clusters lifecycle at Customer's Cloud Provider are granted the admin rights by the customer to the given API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, Giant Swarm operators - which are responsible for managing clusters lifecycle - are granted admin rights by the customer to the given cloud provider.
```

> This point is under discussion and might be limited in the near future to limited permissions allowing management of the clusters only.

Reviewer 2: I also think this is a bit off, and differs between AWS and Azure, no?

Author: i might just delete this sentence as it was still not decided

The operator secret used for authentication with the cloud provider is stored in Kubernetes' etcd.
Access to etcd or Kubernetes API are secured based on certificates signed by Vault, 

> to which only personel in approriate Github Giant Swarm organization have access to.   

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to which only personnel in the GitHub Giant Swarm organization have access to.   
```

## User access

User access is limited to the offered APIs for interaction with your clusters. 

### Giant Swarm API

User access is provided to you over the Giant Swarm API. 

> Network access to the API endpoint is usually whitelisted to a certain range of IP addresses but it can also be  configured to work over VPN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Network access to the API endpoint is usually whitelisted to a certain range of IP addresses but it can also be configured to work over VPN.
```

> Later case follows the security principles of the general VPN connection schema shown above under [admin access](#admin-access).

Reviewer 2: What does this mean?

Author: That the API connection is only possible via the VPN of the customer

### Kubernetes API

> Kubernetes API of the Tenant Cluster are exposed to the customer. You have full control over the users that are created via Giant Swarm API. Additionally you can also manage users via external Identity Provider by connecting the API to it.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubernetes API of the clusters are exposed to the customers. You have full control over the users that are created via the Giant Swarm API. Additionally, you can also manage users by connecting an external Identity Provider to the Kubernetes API.
```

+++
title = "Secured access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support"
description = "This documentation explains security measures for users and Giant Swarm support accessing offered services"
date = "2019-05-09"
weight = 45
type = "page"
categories = ["basics"]
+++

# Secured access to clusters for users and Giant Swarm support

In order to provide the best service possible besides you having access to your clusters, also Giant Swarm staff will be able to connect.

Thus it should be explained how this access differs and what security measures are brought into place so that your data is saved with us. 

## Intro

Access to Giant Swarm clusters can be split into two parts. 

1. Admin Access - designated for Giant Swarm staff for managing/development/support purposes.

2. User Access - designated for Giant Swarm customers to interact with the offered services.

> If you would like to know more on different parts of infrastructure you can view the operational layer article [here](https://docs.giantswarm.io/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you would like to know more on the different parts of the Giant Swarm infrastructure, please see our [operational layers article](https://docs.giantswarm.io/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/)
```

> ## Admin Access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Admin access
```

We only use Title Case for the top level headline

> Admin access is guarded by Virtual Private Network(VPN) that is managed via certificates (public/private keys) and secured connection between both VPNs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Admin access is guarded by Virtual Private Network (VPN) that is managed via certificates (public/private keys) and secured connection between both VPNs.
```

> Certificates management is handled by one of Giant Swarm private components. The general principle is that certificate is configured for each individual Giant Swarm staff member.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Certificates management is handled by one of Giant Swarm's private components. The general principle is that a certificate is configured for each individual Giant Swarm staff member.
```

> VPN Secured access points:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
VPN secured access points:
```

> * *SSH* - SSH Admin access is based on the Github SSO. Only users residing in the Github Giant Swarm Organization are allowed to authenticate. Following process describes more in detail the procedure of SSH authentication:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **SSH** - SSH Admin access is based on the Github SSO. Only users residing in the Github Giant Swarm Organization are allowed to authenticate. Following process describes more in detail the procedure of SSH authentication:
```

I'd prefer bold over italic here

>   ![](./ssh_access_process.png)  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

![](./ssh_access_process.png)  

```

Adding white space before and after the image, to avoid it from looking crammed

  SSH access to Control Plane allows Giant Swarm also to manage and connect to underlying Data Platforms of the Customer.

> * *Control Plane Kubernetes API* - Usage of Kuberentes API on Control Plane also follows the authentication principles of the SSH connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Control Plane Kubernetes API** - Usage of Kuberentes API on Control Plane also follows the authentication principles of the SSH connection.
```

> ***General VPN Connection Schema***

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### General VPN connection schema
```

Following schema illustrates how the VPN connection looks in practice. 

![](./site-to-site-vpn.png)

Cluster can be accessed by connecting to Giant Swarm VPN server which establishes secure connection with jump host of the cluster.

We use two different VPN providers in order to bring the best and fastest support possible.

> ***Cloud Provider Access***

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Cloud provider access
```

At the current stage internal Giant Swarm operator components responsible for managing clusters lifecycle at Customer's Cloud Provider are granted the admin rights by the customer to the given API.
This point is under discussion and might be limited in the near future to limited permissions allowing management of the clusters only.

> The operator secret used for authentication with Cloud Provider is stored in Kubernetes API. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The operator secret used for authentication with the cloud provider is stored in Kubernetes' Etcd. 
```

> This means that actually etcd holds authentication credentials. 

Reviewer 3: This line can be removed

> Access to etcd or Kubernetes API are secured based on certificates validated in Vault, 

Reviewer 3: > ...validated in Vault

I think this is not accurate. Vault is issuing the key pair (X.509 certificate and private key), but to my knowledge neither Vault nor any other 3rd party is required to verify a certificate. Kubernetes API knows the issuer's CA certificate and can verify the cert's integrity on its own.

Author: will re-prahse it

to which only personel in approriate Github Giant Swarm organization have access to.   

> ***Reference docs***:  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Reference documentation
```

Reviewer 3: I would recommend to move this link list to a `Further reqding` section in the bottom

> [Github Vault auth](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/github.html)  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[GitHub Vault authentication](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth/github.html)  
```

[Vault SSH certificate](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/ssh/signed-ssh-certificates.html)

> ## User Access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## User access
```

> User access is limited to the offered API's for interaction with your clusters. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
User access is limited to the offered APIs for interaction with your clusters. 
```

### Giant Swarm API

> User Access is provided to you over Giant Swarm API. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
User access is provided to you over the Giant Swarm API. 
```

> Access to API itself is usually whitelisted to certain range of IP addresses but it can be a also configured to work over VPN. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Network access to the API endpoint is usually whitelisted to a certain range of IP addresses but it can also be  configured to work over VPN.
```

> Later case follows the security principles of General VPN Connection Schema which was explained in Admin Access case.   

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Later case follows the security principles of the general VPN connection schema shown above under [admin access](#admin-access).
```

> Principles and usage described more in details can be found [here](https://docs.giantswarm.io/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/#giant-swarm-api)

Reviewer 3: Let's move this into a new section `Further reading` in the bottom

### Kubernetes API

Kubernetes API of the Tenant Cluster are exposed to the customer. You have full control over the users that are created via Giant Swarm API. Additionally you can also manage users via external Identity Provider by connecting the API to it.  

> More details on the authentication and process of granting access to it can be found [here](https://docs.giantswarm.io/basics/giant-swarm-operational-layers/#userspace)

Reviewer 3: Let's move this into a new section `Further reading` in the bottom
